[Music]
Volkswagens Jetta is a fine car with
clean lines and a great cabin how do you
improve it make it more fuel-efficient
this is their TDI Clean Diesel engine
it's a third more efficient than a
standard gas unit has gobs of low end
power and listen it doesn't sound like
Diesel's used to doesn't smoke either
until recently you could not buy a
diesel in California or the states that
have adapted their very strict pollution
control standards now through the
miracle of Technology you can they're
very clean BMW and Mercedes they rely on
a fluid called AdBlue it gets spritzed
into the exhaust system to scrub down
the particulates Volkswagen they don't
do it that way a permanent filter traps
the soot then burns it away by getting
insanely hot a front-wheel drive car
Jetta has solid confident handling it's
also luxury car quiet and steel girder
solid electronic stability control is
standard back to that turbocharged
diesel engine it makes 140 horsepower
but more importantly 236 foot-pounds of
torque you may not know it but you like
tour
it's that satisfying power off the line
zero to sixty happens in just over eight
seconds respectable when you consider
the EPA rating is 30 miles per gallon
city 41 highway I'm actually seeing a
bit better than that the TDI engine runs
at lower rpms than most gas four
cylinders it takes a few days to get
used to the bountiful power available at
low revs
especially when rowing your own gears
again inside the cabin there's not much
of the tell-tale diesel sound in fact
none at all when highway cruising price
get twenty three thousand dollars this
particular car has no options but it's
hardly stripped these areas are lined
keeping contents from rattling well damp
and covers and solid handles feel like
the more expensive German cars same with
the six-speed manual and excellent
automatic is a grand more durable and
carefree synthetic leather seats are
very comfortable parents you're dating
teenager will find the passenger seat
tedious to recline if you catch my drift
their heated oh and don't let the
climate control numbers fool you it is
not set and forget automatic no surprise
the diesels back seat is the same as the
regular Jenna I'd say it's good for two
adults back here the middle position has
to deal with a hump a real Plus optional
rear side torso bags augment the
standard side curtain units this makes a
sedan much much more usable once again
it's time for the TP drunk test
why don't you play along I'll give you a
hint the average trunk holds six packs
if you need more room there's a wagon
version but really seven packs is a
great score for a car this size perhaps
to counter perceptions of pricey
ownership VW provides three years of
free maintenance a comparable
gas-powered Jetta is two thousand
dollars less but efficient diesel
engines have proven to be very durable
resale value is higher and there's a
$1,300 federal tax credit Jetta is a cut
above in its class the TDI engine takes
it even further just to clarify other
diesels also use the superheated
particulate filters to burn away
pollutants but they also rely on the add
blue fluid Volkswagen will have a v6
diesel in their tour
soon it will use the urea fluid by the
way the VW people tell me that the
filter is permanent and never needs
replacement
a year ago diesel fuel carried a hefty
price premium now it has dramatically
closed the gap nationwide it's now about
the same as mid grade gasoline that
makes Diesel's easier to justify
financially that's my take on the
Volkswagen Jetta TDI Clean Diesel if you
want a longer written review go to the
website
WWE five.com slash autos there's also a
link to my email there if you've got
questions about this car or any other
that's drive I'm Tom Volk